Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So now, it's time to create the architecture
of the neural network.
The architecture of our auto-encoders.
So, how are we going to do that?
Well, we're going to make a class.
So first of all, what is a class?
A class is a model of something we want to build.
So right now we want to build a neural encoder
so the class that we're going to make
will be the model that will contain the instructions
on how to build the auto-encoder.
So, it's like an ensemble of instructions
and all these instructions will allow to create
what we call an object, because then,
once we're done making the class,
what we can do is create an object of the class,
like the many objects we created in this course.
And of course, for the class we're about to make,
well, when we create an object of this class
this object will be the auto-encoder encoder itself.
So why do we need a class to create an auto-encoder?
Well, that's because a class can contain
some variables and also some functions
that we call methods.
And with all these variables and these methods,
these functions, well, we can make an auto-encoder.
Because, indeed, to make an auto-encoder,
we need to define multiple things.
We need to define the layers: how many layers
we want to have, how many nodes in the layers,
we also need an activation function,
a criterion, and an optimizer function.
So basically, to make an auto-encoder,
we not only need some variables,
that's will get, for example, the info of the layers,
and some functions, for the activation and the optimizer.
And to get all this in one same recipe,
well, we can only use a class,
or, at least, that's the simple solution.
We could also make some modules,
a module contains several classes,
or even some libraries, which contain several modules.
But the simplest solution is to make a class.
And a simple function wouldn't be enough.
So that's the first reason.
The class can gather all these features,
variables and functions to make the auto-encoder.
But then there is a second reason,
and this is very important, because
this is related to PyTorch.
We're gonna use inheritance.
What is inheritance?
That is that we're going to create a class
that's we're gonna call S-A-E, for stacked auto-encoders.
That is actually going to be the child class
of an existing parent class in PyTorch.
And this existing parent class
is called Module, with capital M.
And this taken from the nn module that we imported here.
torch.nn as nn.
So, from this nn module, we're gonna take
the module class, which is the parent class.
And from this class, we will create a child class
through the process of inheritance.
And now the question is, why are we creating
this child class from the parent class Module?
Well, we are doing this so that we can use all the variables
and functions from the parent class Module,
and that's what inheritance is all about.
The use of inheritance is for us to be able to use
the variables and functions from a parent class.
And we need to use the variables and functions
from the parent class Module, because
this parent class Module contains
all the tools to make an auto-encoder.
Indeed, it contains an optimizer function,
it contains a criterion, it contains tools to make
full connections between the layers.
So basically, it contains everything we need
to make an auto-encoder.
Alright, so let's do this.
Let's start with this process of inheritance.
So what's we're gonna do now is
first create this child class that's were gonna call
SAE, capital SAE, because, you know,
we use capitals for classes.
So, to define a class in Python,
we start with class, and then now we put
the name of the class, which we call SAE,
for stacked auto-encoders.
By the way, our auto-encoder is a
stacked auto-encoder, because we will have
several hidden layers, so we will have several
encodings of the input vector features.
And so stacked auto-encoders, and then parentheses.
And now that's where the process of inheritance
comes into play, because, in these parentheses,
we're going to input the parent class
which is Module, with capital M, so Module,
and this Module class is actually taken from the nn module.
Well, nn is a module, and the name of the class from this
nn module is called module also.
Alright, so, now the inheritance is done.
We will then optimize it with the super function
that we're going to use very quickly, but still,
the main action about inheritance is done.
So now, what we have to do is add a colon,
and then we press Enter to go inside the class
and give all the instructions to build our auto-encoders.
Alright, so the first thing we have to do
when we define a class, and that's compulsory,
you will always see this, even if it's
a default function, but still, we need to explicit it,
because we will add some parameters,
is to define the innit function that is used
to initialize the object of the class.
That is that, when we create an object
of this SAE class, well, this innit function
that we're about to define, will initialize the object
with all the parameters defined by this innit function.
And so, to define this innit function, we do it this way:
we start with def, because we're defining a function,
and then we add a double-underscore,
and then, innit, and then, another double-underscore again.
Then, parentheses, and, inside the parentheses,
we input self, that refers to the object of the class.
You can picture self as the auto-encoders
because this is the object of the SAE class.
And then, we add a comma, and then just nothing
because this will just consider the variables
of the Module class, because we are doing inheritance.
And here then, another colon, that's
the syntax in Python to define a function.
And then, enter to go inside the function
and give, this time the instructions of the function.
So, as I just mentioned, the process of inheritance
is mainly done, but we can optimize it
by using the super function.
So, the function is actually called super.
And the use of this super function that we're about to use
is to get the inherited methods from the Module class.
So we use this super function to be able to use
the methods and classes from the nn module,
and the one we need and we're gonna use is
the Linear class, which will make
the different full connections between the layers.
You'll see, we're about to use it in a minute.
So we add here super, then parentheses,
and inside the parentheses we first input
our SAE class, then comma, and then we input
the object of the SAE class, which is self.
Because remember, self refers to the object.
Okay, and then, we add a dot, and then we take
our innit function, like this, so I'm copying this,
and pasting that here, and I'm adding the parentheses.
Here we go, that's will make sure we get
all the inherited classes and methods
of the parent class and then module.
Okay, and now, that's when we start creating
the architecture of the neural network,
I mean, explicitly, because, what we're about to do now
is define this architecture by choosing the number of layers
and the hidden neurons in each of these hidden layers.
So let's do this.
Let's start with the first part of the neural network
that is the full connection between
the input vector features that, as a reminder, is
the ratings of all the movies for one specific user.
And the first hidden layer, which, remember,
is a shorter vector than the input vector,
that's the technique of auto-encoders.
We're encoding the input vector into a shorter vector.
That's will take place in the first hidden layer.
Okay, so now we're going to create an object of the class
that is inherited from the nn module.
And this object will represent
the full connection between this first input vector features
and the first encoded vector.
We're gonna call this first full connection
fc1, and, actually, we need to specify
that this first full connection
is associated to our object,
and, to specify this, we need to use
self.fc1, so that we understand
that fc1 is actually the first full connection
related to our auto-encoders object,
which is represented by self.
Alright, so self.fc1, and then equal
and now, that's when we use the inherited class
from the nn module, which is Linear, with parentheses.
And this class, we're taking it from the nn module.
Alright, so nn.Linear(), and now, we have to input
something in Linear, of course.
The first input is the number of features
in the input vector, and, as you understood,
since the features are actually movies,
because one observation contains
all the ratings of all the movies,
well, this number of input features is of course nb_movies.
Alright, the number of movies.
And then, as you might have guessed,
the second input is going to be
the number of nodes, the number of neurons
in the first hidden layer.
That is the number of elements in the first encoded vector.
So here, I'm not gonna hide that I tried
several values for this vector.
And so the value that I'm about to give you
is based on experiments.
But this is still not tuned.
And of course then, the challenge for you
will be to tune it and to find a better value
to get eventually to a better score.
But this value I found led to a pretty good score.
So I eventually accepted it.
This value is 20.
So, 20 nodes in the first hidden layer,
which means that our first encoded vector
is a vector of 20 elements.
And now, if we want to make the parallel with the problem,
well, what would represent this first hidden layer
composed of 20 neurons?
Well, remember that the neurons in the auto-encoder
represent actually some features that,
through unsupervised learning,
the auto-encoder detects, and so,
these 20 features that are in the first hidden layer
can represent some features of movies
that are liked similar people.
So, for example, one of these 20 nodes
could be a specific genre of a movie.
One of the detected feature could be the horror movie genre.
And, in that case, when a new user comes in the system
then, if this new user gave some good ratings
to all the horror movies of the database,
then this will activate this horror genre neuron
and therefore a big weight will be attributed
to this neuron in the final prediction
to predict the rating of a horror movie.
So this is a very simple example and of course,
the features can be some more complex features
that even would be difficult to define,
but that's how it works.
With this number 20 here, we're trying
to detect 20 features.
Alright, so that's for the first hidden layer.
But now, since we're making some stacked auto-encoders,
we're gonna make another layer.
And it's actually going to be very simple.
We have to make a second full connection.
And so, same, we take our object,
because that's the second full connection
of our auto-encoders, so then, dot, and then,
let's define a new variable that will represent
this second full connection, and of course,
we will call it fc2.
So then, we take again our nn module,
then dot, and then again we're gonna use
the Linear class that will make this full connection.
So Linear.
And now, we have to make the full connection between
the first hidden layer, composed of the 20 neurons
and a second hidden layer, so again, we need to choose
the number of neurons in the second hidden layer.
And so, after all my experiments,
I eventually chose 10 neurons.
So, what we add here is first,
the number of neurons between the first
hidden layer of the connection
that contains 20 neurons, so here, we input 20.
You see, it's going to be like a domino.
So 20, and then comma, and now 10,
because we want 10 neurons in the second hidden layer.
And this will detect even more features,
but based on the previous features that were detected.
So this is getting even more complex, but we get the idea.
And, since we're doing deep learning,
let's add a third layer.
So I'm going to copy this line.
You start to get the idea.
Paste it, and we're gonna call
the third full connection between
the second hidden layer and the third hidden layer fc3.
And now, first, we need to input the number of neurons
in the first layer of the connection,
which is the second layer here,
so that's 10 neurons, and so here
we input 10, so exactly like a domino.
And then here, we need to input the number of neurons
in this third hidden layer, but now,
the important thing to understand is
that we're not doing some more encoding,
we're starting to decode.
You know we're starting to reconstruct
the original input vector.
So, let's make things symmetrical.
We're going to input 20 here to have 20 neurons
in this third hidden layer.
So that's the first part of the decoding.
And now, the last part of the decoding
is the last full connection we have to make
and this is, so I'm pressing enter,
I'm pasting the line again, I'm defining
the fourth full connection as fc4.
And now that's the same, still the domino.
Here we actually input 20, because we had
20 nodes in the third layer.
So 20 here, and then, eventually,
the second input here is, of course,
the number of neurons in the output layer,
and remember, in auto-encoders, we are re-constructing
the input vector, so, the output vector
should have the same dimension as the input vector.
Therefore, the number of neurons in the output layer
is also going to be nb_movies.
So here, we're just replacing 10
by nb, underscore, movies.
Alright, and that's the architecture
of our stacked auto-encoder.
You're totally welcome to try to change it
and actually, I strongly encourage you to do that,
Because you will probably get a better score
in the end, while, so far, that's the best I could obtain.
But we're gonna take part in the competition together
and we will try to get the best score.
Alright, so that's it for the architecture.
Now it is defined.
And now what we have to do is specify an activation function
that will, you know, activate the neurons
when the observation goes into the network.
So, it's exactly like the example I've just given to you.
For example, if someone gives some good ratings
for horror movies, well, this will activate
the specific feature for the horror movie genre.
And this activation will be done with a certain function,
which is the activation we're about to define right now.
So, pressing Enter.
And now, let's define this activation function,
which is another instruction, and all these instructions
given by the class to build our auto-encoders.
So again, we take our object, represented by self.
And then dot, and now we're gonna give a name
to the variable for the activation function.
So we're just defining a variable here.
And we're gonna call it, (mumbles) activation.
And then equal, and so again, I tried some experimenting
and I tried the rectifier activation function
and also, the sigmoid activation function,
and it turns out that I got better results
with a sigmoid activation function
between the four full connections.
Of course, then there will be a section to improve
our model and tune it, but so far,
let's just use this sigmoid activation function
to activate the neurons in these four full connections.
And then, you know, we'll try some combinations
of the rectifier activation function
and the sigmoid activation function.
So, to get the sigmoid activation function,
We're gonna use the Sigmoid class,
with capital S, and again, we're taking
the Sigmoid class from the nn module,
so we add here, dot, and then we take our class
Sigmoid, with some parentheses, and no input.
We don't need any arguments, that's enough to get
the sigmoid activation function.
Perfect!
So that's all for the innit function,
and so now, you can visualize this better.
With the innit function, we defined the features
of our auto-encoders, that is,
the different full connections and the activation function.
And, technically speaking, we just created
five objects of two different classes,
four objects of the Linear class,
and one object of this Sigmoid class.
Okay, so perfect, the innit function is done.
And now, we're gonna make another function
that is required to build our auto-encoders.
And so again, now you see that we have to define
two functions to build our auto-encoders.
So that's why we definitely had to use a class.
Okay, so what's this second function going to do?
Well, it's basically going to do
the action that takes place in auto-encoder.
And what is this action?
Well, that's basically the encoding, and the decoding.
So what's were about to do right now,
is make this function, that we're going to call forward.
And that will proceed to the different encodings
and decodings when the observation
is forwarded into the network.
But we're gonna take a small break now
and we're gonna do this in the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy deep learning!